How To Create and Manage Branches in GitBash?
Suppose a team is working on a project and a branch is created for every member working on the project. Hence every member will work on their branches hence every time the best branch is merged with the master branch of the project. The branches make it a version-controlling system and make it very easy to maintain a project source code.

Syntax:

List all of the branches in your repository.
git branch
Create a new branch
git branch branch_name
Safe Delete the specified branch
git branch -d branch_name
Force delete the specified branch
git branch -D branch_name
To navigate between the branches git checkout is used. To create a new branch and switch on it.

git checkout -b new_branch_name
To simply switch to a branch

git checkout branch_name
After checkout to the branch, you can see a * on the current branch Now the same commit add and commit actions can be performed on this branch also.

Merging Branches in GitBash
First, reach the target branch

git checkout branch_name
Merge the branch to target branch

git merge new_branc
Cloning Repositories in GitBash
Cloning is used to get a copy of the existing git repository. When you run the git clone command it makes the zip folder saved in your default location

git clone url
This command saves the directory as the default directory name of the git repository To save the directory name as your custom name an additional argument is to be passed for your custom name of the directory

git clone url custom_name
Undoing Commits in GitBash
When there is a situation when you forget to add some files to commit and want to undo any commit, it can be committed again using –amend

Syntax:

git commit --amend
Conclusion
You may manage your code using the Git Bash tool. Because it has a command-line interface, you can use scripts to automate processes. You can use it on Windows, Mac, and Linux because it is a cross-platform application. It is open-source and free. Some of the fundamental and sophisticated Git Bash commands have been discussed in this post. Git Bash’s capabilities for cloning repositories, creating and managing branches, merging branches, and undoing changes have also been addressed.

FAQs On GitBash
1. What is the Git bash?
GitBash provides users to work on Git command line on Microsoft Windows environment.